Las Vegas the gambling capital of the
world
in the early morning hours the tables
are still open at the MGM Grand
one of the premier hotel casinos in the
city that never sleeps
Al and Trudy Kahless on vacation from
Los Angeles are in bed on the 18th floor
the highest floor in the hotel at 7:00
in the morning they awake to sounds of
sirens and the smell of smoke and the
hall was filled with smoke it was that
quick
as three thousand guests wake up to the
nightmare of a hotel on fire panicked
people crowd under their balconies to
escape the choking smoke but Al and
Trudy don't have that option the handle
was broken there was a maintenance cart
on it's a door doesn't open a real
revelation to me in the middle of this
fire like dozens of others the calluses
are trapped in their room and rapidly
running out of fresh air I literally
couldn't get enough oxygen and I was
smelling only smoke and I was breathless
and at that moment I had a sense that
this might be my passage out
many guests make the fatal error of
rushing out of their rooms and into
toxic smoke-filled corridors overcome by
the fumes they try to return but the
doors have locked behind them
many who die are later found right
outside their room doors although they
are gasping for air the calluses stay in
their room and eventually Al smashes a
tiny window to breathe through we lay
down the floor with our face stuck out
that window and pull the blackout
draperies around this so that we could
keep out as much smoke that was coming
in
and we've watched the activities down
below
they watch as firefighters extend long
ladders up to the hotel windows and help
terrified victims inch their way to
safety
above them a rescue helicopter hovers
perilously close to the building
rescuing the lucky few who've made it to
the roof
the skillful helicopter crew manages to
pluck victims from upper floor balconies
but there's no way of reaching people
still trapped in their rooms
firefighters ladders fault agonizingly
short of the 18th floor where Al and
Trudy situation is getting more
desperate by the second
smoke from the fire is shooting up the
elevator shafts straight to the 18th
floor it is sucked into the hotel's
air-conditioning system and fans are
blowing the acrid fumes throughout the
poorly ventilated upper floors
rescuers in the street below try to calm
the trapped guests firefighters we
double their efforts to bring the blaze
on the MGM's lower floors under control
and to clear a path to the desperate
victims on the top floor of this deadly
inferno
when we return al and Trudy have one
final chance to get out of this
gambler's paradise alive
as the trapped Las Vegas guests cling to
their lives firefighters find the heart
of the inferno in the delicatessen on
the ground floor of the MGM by the time
firefighters like bert sweeney arrive it
is grown into a huge fireball fireball
that came out of the delicatessen
completely felled the door of the
delicatessen and it came out and bounced
off the floor
the firefighters raced to escape the
speeding ball of flame but they can't
outrun the heat my face Pisan melted
into a small ball the fourth size of the
original face piece that's a hot I got
it
as firefighters finally contain the
blaze below rescuers fight their way to
the top of the hotel and eventually to
the room where Al and Trudy are
desperately clinging to life a fireman
cannons
follow me and we just walked along in
the dark holding on to each other chain
wise so we wouldn't fall because there
was no light we knew we were gonna be
okay after four terrifying hours trapped
in their room Al and Trudy emerged to a
scene which looks like a war zone there
were people who were in various states
people crying there were people who were
elderly they were having a hard time
breathing
stunned victims of the fire can't
comprehend our new luxury hotel could
become a deathtrap there were no right
sign of anything no emergency lights
that we could see how come there's no
fire alarm in the MTM I was on the
twelfth floor there's no alarm in all 85
people are dead and hundreds are injured
in one of the deadliest Hotel fires in
US history but as investigators survey
the wreckage they discover that the
tragedy could have been avoided
fire investigators traced the source of
the blaze to faulty wiring in the
delicatessen refrigerator because of
lacks fire regulations most of the MGM
was not equipped with water sprinklers
the fire had ample opportunity to rage
out of control and to make matters worse
when the blaze first broke out a member
of the hotel staff switched the fire
alarms off thinking they were triggered
by mistake the MGM Grand was rebuilt and
is now called Bally's it boasts one of
the most advanced fire safety systems in
the country with hotel employees
monitoring high-tech fire sensors
supervisor Mary McCall says this
multi-million dollar computer system
will forestall any repeat of the 1980
disaster during a fire the computer will
automatically unlock the doors so that
the guests can get in and also if need
be they can get back out on any floor
that they would have to escape from as a
result of this tragedy much stricter
fire codes were enacted throughout the
United States
they smoke alarms and sprinkler systems
are mandatory in all high rise buildings
the calluses say most of the traumatic
memories have faded when they travel now
there's peace of mind because they know
why their hotels are all safer but
they'll still never forget that terrible
day when our hotels gamble with safety
became a matter of life and death